---
title: Serving the right kind of people
category: essays
layout: main
---

## {{ page.title }}

---

My son Leo was born on April 20th, 2012. He came into the world three weeks
early, catching us totally off guard. As my wife and I scrambled to sort out all
the last minute things we had forgotten to do, much of my day to day life came
to a temporary halt. Among other things, this caused me to cancel the
publication of one of my Practicing Ruby articles.

I wrote an email to subscribers letting them know what had happened, and
apologized for not planning ahead better. I felt bad doing this because there
have been more than a few schedule hiccups lately for a number of reasons, but I
knew that it was the right thing to do. I try not to ship rushed work, and the
idea of spending several hours under stress trying to produce a mediocre article
was utterly unappealing to me.

The reaction to this apology email was predictable, because I had seen it
several other times when announcing unexpected changes in plans to my
subscribers: about a dozen folks unsubscribed right away, and about the same
amount sent me encouraging emails telling me not to be so hard on myself and to
take all the time I need to get back into the swing of things. Every time this
happens, it forces me to think about my business and the different kinds of
customers it serves.

Some folks subscribe to Practicing Ruby thinking that they are paying a certain
amount of money for a certain amount of content over a certain amount of time.
Whenever I mess with the production schedule, I inevitably lose some of those
folks, and from a transactional perspective that is exactly what I should
expect to happen, because it is perfectly ordinary consumer behavior.

However, other folks subscribe to Practicing Ruby for a different reason
entirely. These subscribers stick around out of appreciation for my work and a
desire to help me sustain my efforts. For that reason, they are more likely to
trust my judgement when I need to take a break, and more likely to be optimistic
about any changes I want to make to the service. I like to consider these folks
my supporters, because they seem to always consider my needs as well as their own.

When running a business, it is tempting to look at the money coming in the door
and judge the decisions you make as being successful or unsuccessful based on
their impact to your bottom line. But by doing so, you end up optimizing your
business for consumers and not supporters, and that makes it less and less
enjoyable to work on over time. This is what giant companies do all the time,
and it's pretty obvious that while it may be a profitable way of doing business,
it leads to miserable results for customers in the end.

A better way of looking at things is to judge your progress by how happy you
make those who truly believe in what you are trying to do. If you build up trust
with your supporters, they will go along for the ride with you whether it is
smooth sailing or not. While this may not be the most profitable thing to do
economically speaking, it builds genuine sustainability for your
business that cannot be gained through embracing the consumer mindset.

A business must be profitable to survive, but in order to truly thrive, it needs
to be in tune with its customers. Knowing who your supporters are and listening
to them is one of the best ways to keep your spirits high even when times are
tough.

---

<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 1.0em">Written by Gregory Brown on {{ page.date | date_to_long_string }}. If you enjoyed this essay, please share it with your friends.</p>
